---
layout: post
title:  "The i3 splash!"
date:   2016-11-23 02:36:05
categories: jekyll update
---

# What the heck is i3?

If you are sat wondering what I am talking about, here is a little bit about what i3 actually is.
i3 is what we call a tiling window manager, and is built on top of an exisiting operating system.
<b>It is not an operating system.</b> My current setup is using Ubuntu (through Crouton on my 
Chromebook), and i3 instead of Unity. The reason for this is the weight, the efficiency, and the
aesthetic beauty. A tiling manager allows all window space to be used as effectively as possible,
forcing every open window into tesselating positions. The size of these windows of course, is
completely customizable, along with pretty much everything else in i3.

Whilst it may be harder to get things to look pretty right from the off, it almost makes it even
better when you get a gorgeous setup, and looks far cleaner than anything I have ever achieved in
Unity, or any Windows distro.

# How to get it?

Look here for installation guides, it is a pretty straight forward setup process, you will have your
own version of i3 up and running in no time if you put your mind to it.

# What do I do?

Okay... so you are going to need to be patient, and practice... a lot. When you start installing i3,
you will get the option for a leader key (alt by default). This is very important, and will be a huge
part of functionality when using i3.

## The d menu

So the d menu is a little bit like 'all programs' in Windows. It is where you can search for anything
that is installed your computer. To open the d menu, simply press your leader key + d. You should
see a bar open at the top of your screen. Just begin typing to search for anything in your menu.

## Browsing

I personally like to use Chromium browser in i3 above Chrome, as it is lighter, and can be installed
with a simple 'sudo apt-get install chromium-browser'. 

## Terminal

If you are anything like me, you love the terminal. You want to live inside the terminal, and quite
rightly, it is fast, efficient, light, and when customized, beautiful. But how do you open it? Press
your leader key + enter to open the terminal. I like to use Hyperterm (web-written terminal ported
with Electron). All of the configuration is done with good old CSS. It is simply stunning to use. I
couple this with the Gotham theme, which I also use for Vim.

# The window tiling

So now, you have a terminal window open, but you want to open another. Do it, you should see that the
new terminal appears in the other half of your screen, and the old terminal shrinks down to half size.
If you were to have done this process in Unity, it would have overlayed one terminal on top of the
other. That cannot be good! Now you have a couple of terminals open, but if you want a browser open
simultaneously, then you will be reducing the terminal size even more, so why not just use a separate
workspace for the broswer? By presseing your leader key + *any number*, a new workspace will be created,
or you will be switched to the workspace previously assigned to that number. Now you can do your
terminal work in one workspace, whilst swapping the browser for work in the other workspace.




[jekyll]:      http://jekyllrb.com
[jekyll-gh]:   https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll
[jekyll-help]: https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll-help
